\documentclass[11pt]{article}
\begin{document}


\begin{flushleft}
This text is\\ left-aligned.
\LaTeX{} is not trying to make
each line the same length.
\end{flushleft}


\begin{flushright}
This text is right-\\aligned.
\LaTeX{} is not trying to make
each line the same length.
\end{flushright}


\begin{center}
At the centre\\of the earth
\end{center}


A typographical rule of thumb
for the line length is:
\begin{quote}
On average, no line should
be longer than 66 characters.
\end{quote}
This is why \LaTeX{} pages have
such large borders by default and
also why multicolumn print is
used in newspapers.


I know only one English poem by
heart. It is about Humpty Dumpty.
\begin{flushleft}
\begin{verse}
Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall:\\
Humpty Dumpty had a great fall.\\
All the King¡¯s horses and all
the King¡¯s men\\
Couldn¡¯t put Humpty together
again.
\end{verse}
\end{flushleft}


\end{document}